# The Use of Medical Information for Controlling Bariatric Demands

This article reports the development of software responsible for the order of patients that are waiting for bariatric surgeries offered by the Brazilian Single Health System (SUS). The research aims to bring up necessary aspects to the construction of means to control the availability of bariatric surgeries, used in the treatment of obesity, by parameters provided from the latest decree of the Ministry of Health. According to GM / MS No. 424, of March 19, 2013, which uses the Body Mass Index (in Portuguese, IMC) as a basic criterion in indicating surgeries as the last option for the treatment of obesity. After analyzing the criteria, contraindications and requirements, there was a need to create a mechanism which eliminates all bureaucratic issues, or red tapes, in the order of patients, once obesity leads to several other diseases, such as Diabetes Mellitus Type 2, for example. For this, a WEB system has been developed, responsible for ordering patients by their calculated IMC results. Once there was no access to the database from the SUS system, a simple questionnaire was simulated in which all aspects highlighted by the studied decree could be researched. It has been found that the created tool allows helping to control the order of surgeries and it guarantees transparency to the process, highlighting the classification criteria and showing easily auditable information.

Keywords: Bariatric Surgery, Obesity, Software, Body Mass Index, Diabetes Mellitus Type 2.
